[Music]
when bad hair days are your everyday
reality it really zaps the fun out of
your morning routine thankfully all you
need to do to make your hair perfect to
use the middle of your hair type and how
to operate with it and as your hair guru
for the day I'm here to tell you all
about it let's start with a quick
backstory in the 90s
Andre Walker one of the most talented
hair stylists who worked with Oprah
Winfrey and Halle Berry came up with his
own hair typing system it was originally
created for his haircare line but
quickly became widely popular basically
hundret Walker classifies not only one
or two but nine different types of hair
and it's time to find out which one of
them is yours the best way to do it is
to wash your hair comb it gently and let
it dry naturally but since you know your
hair better than anybody else you
probably don't need to do any of that so
in the aundre Walker hair typing system
everything comes down to how curly your
hair is naturally perfectly straight
with no sign of curls then you're type 1
kinda wavy but nothing crazy good you're
definitely type 2 really curly with a
strong s-shaped curl pattern type 3
sounds exactly like you and finally
tightly curled and kinky hair fall into
type 4 category but wait there's more
each of those types can be divided into
three subtypes a B and C and here is
where the most interesting part starts
let's begin with the first type
perfectly straight hair one a hair is
usually not thick at all and extremely
soft and fine its biggest advantage is
that it naturally looks really shiny but
it's huge drawback is that it quickly
becomes oily and dirty 1b hair on the
other hand is kind of thick and has
great volume near the roots so it looks
way more full than one a hair type and
one C hair is really thick and has
impressive volume however it's almost
impossible to
curl this type is pretty common among
Asian women next up is wavy hair - a
hair is right in between wavy and
straight without any styling it tends to
form weak s-shaped strands curling a bit
at the end it reacts pretty well the
styling it's not a problem to make it
either super straight or really wavy to
be hair has way more visible and
prominent as shaped curls it can be
slightly frizzy as well adhering to the
shape of your head finally to see hair
combines wavy and curly hair it's very
frizzy quickly curls up in humid
environments and has tons of volume and
generally thicker waves now let's learn
more about curly hair 3a hair is shiny
and great at taking any form you wanted
to this type has a very defined S shape
which makes it appear full and healthy
3b type has a smaller curl pattern than
3a ranging from spiral light curls to
tight corkscrews it also has a
combination texture 3c hair is actually
thinner than 3a and 3b but it's curls
are smaller which makes it appear
thicker plus it's very tight almost to
the point of being kinky now that I
mentioned kinky hair it's time to
explore this last hair category for a
hair has an S shape pattern if you
stretch it but usually it's just high
coils it tends to be thin brittle and
fragile 4b hair bends with really sharp
angles and often has a Z shape and
zigzag light curls just like 4a this
type is pretty fragile as well and 4c
type is the hardest to style and take
care of it doesn't have a definite curl
pattern which makes it look awesome but
extremely hard to comb it also has the
greatest shrinkage out of all the types
so figure out your hair type yet good
because I'm about to tell you exactly
what you need to do to make your hair
look bomb 24/7
as always let's start with hair group
number one first and foremost throw all
your essential hair oils away your hair
is already as soft and shiny as it can
be so the only thing you should worry
about is volume especially if you have
won a hair type straight and soft hair
like yours get too dirty and oily pretty
quickly so try to pick the shampoos that
have curative clay as one of the
components it will make your hair stay
clean longer another thing that can make
a huge difference is exfoliating your
scalp at least once a week as for the
hair styling the best choice for type 1
hair are Cascade haircuts of any kind
they will make your hair appear thicker
and fuller the good news is that your
strands have nothing against blow dryers
so go for it
however if you have one a type hair you
probably already know that it usually
doesn't stay curled or hold volume for
long and this is a great opportunity to
get creative with a feminine braid or a
high fashioned ponytail now if you fall
into the second hair group your hair
care should be completely different your
main task is to make your hair look
thick without it looking crazy and messy
try to look for shampoos and
conditioners with a moisturizing effect
if they also have fruit extracts or
herbs as components grab them and never
let go this is exactly what your hair
needs if you notice your hair getting
dry throughout the day just put a tiny
bit of grape or mustard oil near the
ends this trick will make your waves
look alive your hair drying ritual
should also change try to leave your
hair at least a little bit wet after
blow-drying or use cool air if you don't
want it to look too fluffy the natural
approach also applies when choosing the
perfect haircut make sure to stay away
from dramatic transitions in your hair
style
otherwise you'll be stuck at home with
your straightener every single morning
curly haired guys and girls from hair
group number 3 have pretty much the same
end goal as people with type 2 hair
keeping their curls hydrated your best
options are essential oils though
they'll keep the moisture in your
strands and prevent them from getting
too dry when picking shampoos or
conditioners always make sure that they
don't
have sulphates these guys will only make
your hair fluffy and wild silicone is
also your enemy it basically locks your
hair and doesn't allow any moisture in
hairdressers actually recommend people
with this hair type buy a silk pillow
it'll protect your hair from friction
hair styling rules for type 3 hair are
also similar try to dry your hair
naturally more often and use cool air if
you need to speed things up
hair straighteners are no good for your
hair either as they make it even more
fragile as for the perfect curly hair
hair cut you have to remember one simple
principle the shorter the hairstyle the
curlier your hair will be and don't let
your hairdresser wet your hair before
cutting it curly hair may have a
completely different form as it dries so
it's better not to wet it at all
and finally type 4 it's your turn your
hair doesn't get oily that easily so
unlike hair type number 1 you don't have
to wash it that often however this
doesn't mean that you shouldn't pick
your hair care products wisely the
softer your shampoo and conditioner are
the better with a good enough
conditioner you can sometimes even go
shampoo free for a day just wet your
hair apply some conditioner rinse it off
and let your hair dry believe me it'll
look fantastic
essential oils should be your best
friends as well it's better to apply
them to the end as they are the most
fragile on a positive note blow-drying
shouldn't be too hard for you cold air
10 to 15 minutes of your time and it's
done just don't forget to do some towel
action before that where your dreamy
curls will lose their form your best
haircut options are shoulder length or
the low shoulder length since the
shorter the curlier rule applies to you
too
still no matter what hair type you have
you should always do two things take
care of it
and own it this way you'll always look
like a million bucks
and what's your secret to making your
hair luscious let me know down in the
comments if you learn something new
today thank you this video a like and
share it with a friend but hey don't go
anywhere just yet we have over two
thousand cool videos for you to check
out all you have to do is pick the left
or right video click on it and enjoy
stay on the bright side of life